update: Compose Multiplatform 1.7.0 What's new for upcoming beta01 (#201)
JetBrains/kotlin-multiplatform-dev-docs: topics/whats-new/whats-new-compose-170.md

However, this implementation introduces a small delay (150 ms) in UI response.
If you’re certain you won’t need to process these touches in Compose, you can turn this behavior off with the new `areTouchesDelayed`
parameter of `UIKitView` and `UIKitViewController` APIs.

## Desktop

### Drag and drop implemented

The drag and drop mechanism, allowing for dragging content into or out of your Compose application,
is implemented in Compose Multiplatform for desktop.
You can use the `dragAndDropSource` and `dragAndDropTarget` modifiers to specify potential sources and destinations for drag operations.

> While these modifiers are available in common code, for now they will only work in desktop and Android source sets.
> Stay tuned for future releases.
> 
{type="note"}

For common use cases, see the [Drag and drop](https://developer.android.com/develop/ui/compose/touch-input/user-interactions/drag-and-drop)
article in Jetpack Compose documentation.

### Render settings for ComposePanel

By specifying the new `RenderSettings` parameter in the `ComposePanel` constructor you can enable vertical synchronization
and thus try to reduce visual latency between input and changes in the UI.

> Screen tearing is a potential side effect.

Reviewer: AFAIK _disabling_ VSync is what reduces latency between input and UI changes, with potential screen tearing.

Author: Yep, thanks for noticing! We clarified it in the Gdoc (which is the currentest draft for now).

So interop views handled these touch sequences entirely.

In 1.7.0, Compose Multiplatform implements more sophisticated logic for handling interop touch sequences.
By default, there is a delay after the initial touch that helps the parent composable understand whether
the touch sequence was meant to interact with the native view and react accordingly.

See the more detailed explanation in the [iOS section of this page](#touch-interop-between-compose-multiplatform-and-native-ios-is-improved) 
or read the documentation for this feature TODO link.

### Disabling minimum frame duration on iOS is mandatory

Developers often failed to notice the printed warning about the high refresh rate displays,
and users were deprived of smooth animations on their 120 Hz displays.
So we are enforcing this check to be strict: apps build with Compose Multiplatform will now crash
if the `CADisableMinimumFrameDurationOnPhone` property in the `Info.plist` file is absent or set to `false`.

You can disable this behavior by setting the `ComposeUIViewControllerConfiguration.enforceStrictPlistSanityCheck` property to `false`.

> ## Across platforms

Author: This section is more of a compromise: everything that doesn't neatly fit into particular platform or true cross-platform (as in available on every target we support). There may be a better way, I'll keep thinking about this :)

}
```

The `calculateWindowSizeClass` function is not available in common code yet.
But you can import and call it in platform-specific code, for example:

```kotlin
// desktopMain/kotlin/main.kt
import androidx.compose.material3.windowsizeclass.calculateWindowSizeClass

// ...

val size = calculateWindowSizeClass()
```

#### material-navigation

The material-navigation library is available in common code alongside Compose Multiplatform navigation.
To use it, add these explicit dependencies to your common source set:

```kotlin
commonMain.dependencies {
  implementation("org.jetbrains.androidx.navigation:navigation-compose:2.8.0-alpha09")
  implementation("org.jetbrains.compose.material:material-navigation:1.7.0-beta01")
}
```

### Skia updated to Milestone 126

The version of Skia, used by Compose Multiplatform via [Skiko](https://github.com/JetBrains/skiko), has been updated to Milestone 126.

The previous version of Skia used was Milestone 116. You can see the changes made between these versions in the [release notes](https://skia.googlesource.com/skia/+/refs/heads/main/RELEASE_NOTES.md#milestone-126).

### GraphicsLayer: new drawing API

> The new drawing layer added in Jetpack Compose 1.7.0 is available in Compose Multiplatform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The new drawing layer added in Jetpack Compose 1.7.0 is now available in Compose Multiplatform.
```

> Unlike `Modifier.graphicsLayer`, the new `GraphicsLayer` class allows for rendering of Composable content anywhere

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unlike `Modifier.graphicsLayer`, the new `GraphicsLayer` class allows for the rendering of Composable content anywhere
```

and is useful in animated use cases where content is expected to be rendered in different scenes.

See the [reference documentation](https://developer.android.com/reference/kotlin/androidx/compose/ui/graphics/layer/GraphicsLayer)
for a more detailed description and example usage.

### LocalLifecycleOwner moved out of Compose UI

> The `LocalLifecycleOwner` class is moved from the Compose UI package to the Lifecycle package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `LocalLifecycleOwner` class has been moved from the Compose UI package to the Lifecycle package.
```

> This allows you to access the class and call its Compose-based helper APIs independently of a Compose UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This change allows you to access the class and call its Compose-based helper APIs independently of a Compose UI.
```

But keep in mind that without the Compose UI bindings a `LocalLifecycleOwner` instance will have no platform integration
and thus no platform-specific events to listen to.

## iOS

### Touch interop between Compose Multiplatform and native iOS is improved

In this release, the touch handling on iOS interop views becomes more sophisticated:
Compose Multiplatform now tries to detect whether a touch is meant for an interop view or should be processed by Compose.
This gives you a chance to process a touch event that happens in a UIKit or a SwiftUI area inside your Compose Multiplatform app.

By default, Compose Multiplatform will delay transmitting touch events to interop views by 150 ms:

* If within this time frame there is movement over a minor distance threshold,
  the parent composable will intercept the touch sequence and not forward it to the interop view.

> * If there is no noticeable movement, Compose will resign from processing the rest of the touch sequence.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If there is no noticeable movement, Compose will stop processing the rest of the touch sequence.
```

  The rest of the sequence will be processed solely by the interop view.

This behavior aligns with how native [UIScrollView](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiscrollview) works.

> It helps to avoid situations where a touch sequence that started in the interop view ends up intercepted by the interop view

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It helps to avoid situations where a touch sequence that starts in the interop view is intercepted
```

> without a chance for Compose Multiplatform to process it. This can lead to frustrating user experience, for example,

Reviewer 2: I suggest breaking down this sentence into smaller chunks:
This can lead to a frustrating user experience. For example, [....]

when large interop views (such as video players) are used in a scrollable context such as lazy list: it is tricky
to scroll the list when most of the screen is taken by the interop view that intercepts all touches without Compose Multiplatform being aware of them.

## Desktop

### Drag and drop implemented

> The drag and drop mechanism, allowing for dragging content into or out of your Compose application,

Reviewer 2: I suggest rewriting this a little, how about:
The drag-and-drop mechanism, which enables content to be dragged into or out of your Compose application, has been implemented in Compose Multiplatform for desktop.

is implemented in Compose Multiplatform for desktop.
You can use the `dragAndDropSource` and `dragAndDropTarget` modifiers to specify potential sources and destinations for drag operations.

> > While these modifiers are available in common code, for now they will only work in desktop and Android source sets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> While these modifiers are available in common code, they currently only work in desktop and Android source sets.
```

> Stay tuned for future releases.
> 
{type="note"}

For common use cases, see the [Drag and drop](https://developer.android.com/develop/ui/compose/touch-input/user-interactions/drag-and-drop)

> article in Jetpack Compose documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
article in the Jetpack Compose documentation.
```

### BasicTextField2 stabilized and renamed into BasicTextField

> Jetpack Compose stabilized and renamed the `BasicTextField2` component into `BasicTextField`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Jetpack Compose stabilized and renamed the `BasicTextField2` component to `BasicTextField`.
```

> In this release, Compose Multiplatform adopted the change for desktop targets, planning to cover iOS as well

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this release, Compose Multiplatform has adopted the change for desktop targets, planning to cover iOS as well
```

in the stable 1.7.0 version.

The new `BasicTextField`:
* Allows managing state more reliably.
* Offers the new `TextFieldBuffer` API for programmatic changes to the text field content.

> * Contains several new APIs for visual transformations and styling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Includes several new APIs for visual transformations and styling.
```

* Provides access to `UndoState` with the ability to return to previous states of the field.

### Render settings for ComposePanel

> By specifying the new `RenderSettings.isVsyncEnabled` parameter in the `ComposePanel` constructor you can hint to the backend

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By specifying the new `RenderSettings.isVsyncEnabled` parameter in the `ComposePanel` constructor, you can hint to the backend
```
